---
layout: default
title: Overview
nav_order: 2
---


## Task description
{: .no_toc }

The current section outlines the general procedure of Engagement resource annotation. 
Essentially, we will provide annotations for the following layers in that order:

{:toc}



## 1. Clause boundary detection


The annotation should start with clause boundary segmengation and clause type identification.
The purpose of this layer is help you correctly identify engagement strategies as well as their layers.


See [clause boundary detection](3_Part2_Clause_boundary.md) for details.


### Part of Speech layer
You can refer to Part-Of-Speech (POS) tags automatically generated by spaCy during the annotation. 
There are two layers in the POS annotation. One is coarse-grained (UPOS); the other is finer-grained (XPOS).
For UPOS, see the following documentation from [Universal Dependency project](https://universaldependencies.org/u/pos/).
For XPOS, see the following table from spaCy documentation on [POS scheme](https://v2.spacy.io/api/annotation#pos-tagging).


## 2. Engagement resource annotation

### 2.a Engagement span detection

Once the clause layer has been tagged, the next step is to identify any engagement strategies in the sentences. To this end, we will start by identifying the spans of engagement resources.

For more details see [tag spans](4_Part3_tag_spans.md).



### 2.b Engagement strategy annotation

For each of the engagement resource spans, decide specific category of engagement strategy (e.g., `ENTERTAIN`, `ATTRIBUTE`, `CONCUR`, etc.).



### 2.c Primary vs Secondary strategy classification

As the final step, we will classify engagement resource into primary and secondary strategies.
Primary strategies are those that determines the engagement values of the whole T-unit.
Secondary strategies are those that supplement the primary engagement values in the clause; this often occurs (but not always) in the subordinate/embedded clauses.

